---
title: Todo application using Ember.js, Express and Postgres
---

 Let's build a Todo application using Ember.js (frontend), Express (backend) and Postgres (database). This blog post is mainly intended for beginners.

 Check the code in Github:   
 [Ember Todo app](https://github.com/JeenaJohn/emberjs-todo)  
 [Express Todo app](https://github.com/JeenaJohn/express-postgres-todo)

 **Start by building the Ember app**
 {% highlight javascript %}
  ember new emberjs-new
  cd emberjs-new
  ember s
  {% endhighlight %}
 emberjs-new is the name of the Ember application and it will be served on [http://localhost:4200/](http://localhost:4200/)
 “Welcome to Ember” will be displayed in the application.

 **Postgres Setup**

  `$ npm install pg --save`

 Postgres server will be up and running on port 5432.

 Now, let’s create a database (named todo) in PostgreSQL.

{% highlight sql %}
  createdb todo
  psql todo
  todo=# CREATE TABLE items(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, text VARCHAR(40) not null, complete BOOLEAN);
{% endhighlight %}

Verify the table creation
{% highlight sql %}
  todo=# \d items;
{% endhighlight %}

**Now, back to Ember app**

Let’s create a route named todo
{% highlight javascript %}
  ember g route todo
{% endhighlight %}

 Create the model named todo
{% highlight javascript %}
  ember g model todo
{% endhighlight %}

 In the model, add the two attributes text and complete

 Change the todo.hbs template

 Add controller  
 {% highlight javascript %}
 ember g controller todo
 {% endhighlight %}

 Add the actions


**Express Setup**

Start by installing the Express generator if you don’t already have it:

`$ npm install -g express-generator@4`

create a new project:  

`$ express express-postgres-todo`

Install dependencies:  

`$ cd express-postgres-todo && npm install`

Add Supervisor to watch for code changes:

`$ npm install supervisor -g`

Update the ‘start’ script in the package.json file:
{% highlight json %}
"scripts": {
    "start": "supervisor ./bin/www"
  },
{% endhighlight %}



Run the Express app:   

`$ npm start`

Then navigate to [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) in your browser. You should see the “Welcome to Express” text.


Now, let’s add the endpoints.


 | **Function**   |   **URL**  |  **Action** |
| -------- | ------- | ----- |
| CREATE   |  /api/v1//todos   |   Create a single todo |
| READ     |   /api/v1/todos      |   Get all todos |
| UPDATE     |   /api/v1/todos/:todo_id      |   Update a single todo |
| DELETE    |   /api/v1/todos/:todo_id      |   Delete a single todo |
